There's not really a typical day as a data scientist.
But there's always some component where we are working with the other teams around us,
mainly that means the marketing team,
or the technology team.
You can make the greatest model in the world,
but if you can't deliver it,
and nobody wants it, then what's the point?
There some part of the day that's for writing code,
and that's anything from SQL for data exploration,
to Python, or Spark for more media work.
Two important parts that you're going to wear,
you're going to have to end up wearing a couple of hats;
one is of course just the technical abilities.
So, familiarity with statistics,
comfortable with mathematics in general, but the next trick,
and this one comes up a lot especially from talking to other mathematicians,
the ability to program is essential,
it's mainly to gathering and clean your data.
Data Science gets its 80 percent data munching,
it's 90 percent data munching,
less numbers get thrown around,
but there's a lot of data munching.
Just putting your hands on that data and working with it is
something you need to be able to do by yourself to really start to appreciate.
Does that mean you have to be a professional programmer in order to do Data Science?
I don't consider myself a professional programmer.
I've actually no formal training in code,
but I have spent a large portion of my life writing code one way or another.